
1.List three data sources Power BI can connect to.
SQL Server Database

Excel files (.xlsx, .xls)
Web APIs / Online Services


2.What is the first step to import data into Power BI Desktop?
into to 'GEt data' and choose file 'sql or scv' and other

3.How do you refresh imported data in Power BI?
In Power BI Desktop → click Home → Refresh. This pulls the latest data from the connected source into your report.

In Power BI Service (online) → you can set up Scheduled Refresh so data updates automatically at specific times.

4.What file formats can Power BI import directly? (Name two.)
 Excel files (.xlsx, .xls)

CSV files (.csv)

5.What does the "Navigator" window show after selecting a data source?
Browse and select which tables/sheets you want to load.

See a small preview of the data inside each table.

Decide whether to Load directly or Transform Data in Power Query.

6.Import Sales_Data.csv and load only the "Product" and "Price" columns.
Get Data → Select CSV → choose Sales_Data.csv.

When the Navigator window opens, click Transform Data instead of Load.

In the Power Query Editor,

Uncheck all columns except Product and Price.

Or use Remove Other Columns (right-click on Product or Price → Remove Other Columns).

Click Close & Load → only those two columns will be loaded into your model. 

7.How would you change OrderDate to a date format during import?
Import your data and click Transform Data.

In the Power Query Editor, select the OrderDate column.

On the toolbar, go to Transform → Data Type → Date.

If needed, choose the correct locale/format (e.g., MM/DD/YYYY or DD/MM/YYYY).

Click Close & Load to apply. 

8.What is the difference between "Load" and "Transform Data" in the import dialog?
Load → Immediately loads the selected data (all tables/columns) into the data model, without changes.

Transform Data → Opens the Power Query Editor, where you can clean, filter, rename, change data types, or remove columns before loading into the model.

9.Why might you see an error when connecting to a SQL database? (Name one reason.)
One common reason is incorrect server name or login credentials (username/password).

Other possible reasons include:

Network/firewall blocking the connection

Database permissions not granted

SQL Server not running or unreachable

10.How do you replace a data source after importing it?
Go to the Home tab → click Transform Data → Data source settings.

In the window, select the data source you want to change.

Click Change Source….

Enter the new file path, server name, or database details.

Click OK → then Close & Apply to update the model with the new source.
11.Write the M-code to import only rows where Quantity > 1.
Source → loads the CSV.

PromoteHeaders → makes the first row the column headers.

Table.SelectRows → keeps only rows where Quantity > 1.

  12.Go to Home → Transform Data → Data source settings.

Select the CSV source → click Change Source….

Browse to the new file location or update the file name.

If structure changed (e.g., new columns), adjust transformations in Power Query Editor.

  13.In Power Query Editor, select the column → set correct Data Type (e.g., Whole Number, Decimal, or Text).

If you want to keep all values → set to Text.

If you only need numeric rows → filter out non-numeric values, or use Replace Errors.

  14.SELECT *
FROM Sales
WHERE YEAR(OrderDate) = @Year
Map @Year to your Power Query parameter.

  15.Change source → update path in Data source settings.

Mixed type error → enforce data type or clean data in Power Query.

SQL live connection with parameter → use query parameters.

Automation → use Power Automate to refresh on schedule or trigger.
  
